---
layout: post
title: "New Octopress blog..."
date: 2012-12-13 09:56
comments: true
categories: octopress, blog
---

I created this blog specifically to jot down notes of interesting / useful / meaningful stuff I find during my adventures with development, which I hope are useful to others.

And to start with, here is a link to a post that really helped me out [Octopress: Setting up a Blog and Contributing to an Existing One](http://code.dblock.org/Octopress-setting-up-a-blog-and-contributing-to-an-existing-one). It wasn't really clear to me from Octopress instructions that I had to run rake generate and rake deploy; I was just trying to make the git commits and push by hand (and becoming really frustrated by it). So, just for my own reference:

<pre><code> # do stuff in your blog, like rake new_post
	# then generate the blog
	rake generate
	# then save the source branch and push it to Github
	git add .
	git commit -m "whatever message"
	git push origin source
	# and now, this is where the magic happens! this takes care
	# of pushing everything automagically onto the master branch!
	rake deploy
</code></pre>

(depending on your system, you might need to run bundle exec followed by the rake commands).

Oh, and also... to delete a post, delete it only from <pre><code>blog-root/source/_posts/post-title</code></pre> and then run the commands above again. The rake tasks from Octopress take care of everything.

This cool minimalistic theme is from [zespia.tw](http://zespia.tw), and it's called [Slash](http://zespia.tw/Octopress-Theme-Slash/).

Ta-da!

So far I'm really enjoying Octopress -- I chose it because I want to be able to do everything from the shell, and never leave my dev environment and my beloved ST2/emacs combination.

